(♫ by Rodriguez)
♫ Sugar Man, won't you hurry?
♫ Cos I'm tired of these scenes
♫ For a blue coin,
won't you bring back
♫ All those colours to my dreams?
♫ Silver magic ships, you carry
♫ Jumpers, coke, sweet Mary Jane
♫ Sugar Man
(Stephen Segerman)
I got my nickname from this song.
When I was in the Army they used to
mispronounce Segerman as Sugar Man.
And then they just started calling me
Sugar and that became my nickname.
It's 40 years since this LP called
Cold Fact by Rodriguez was released.
And in South Africa
it was a very popular album.
It was one of the biggest albums
of the day.
But the thing was,
we didn't know who this guy was.
All our other rock stars,
we had all the information we needed.
But this guy? There was nothing.
And then we found out
that he had committed suicide.
He set himself alight on stage and
burnt to death in front of the audience.
It was the most incredible thing.
It wasn't just a suicide.
It was probably the most
grotesque suicide in rock history.
(thunder crashing)
(Dennis Coffey) The first time that
I remember actually recognising him is
Mike Theodore called me
on the phone one day and said,
''I have this artist
I want you to come see with me.
''This guy's name is Rodriguez,
''he's working down by the Detroit River.
''There's a bar down there,
''down by the wharf riverside district.
''Let's go see him tonight.
''I think you'll really like him.''
So that night, I remember,
we pull up...
away in this kinda isolated
part of Detroit
right on the side of the Detroit River,
and you could see the mist in the air
coming off the river. We could feel it.
And we went inside there,
and as we walked in the door,
we could hear behind us
the sound of the freighters
as they're going down the river,
and so it's like you're walking out
of a Sherlock Holmes novel.
You walk out of the mist
and you go into this place,
and inside the place,
it's all full of smoke,
so there's a mist inside there.
(Mike Theodore) Boom, hey, you know,
it's a wall of smoke.
Beer all over the place. Peanut shells.
It was just a mess.
And then you hear this strumming sound.
Strumming and batting the guitar.
(mimics guitar batting)
And then you hear this voice.
Strange voice.
(Coffey) Finally, we walked
through the smoke, and I looked,
and there in the far corner I saw...
I could see the shadow of a man
and I couldn't see his face.
I said, ''What's the deal?''
So we got a little closer...
(Theodore) And you see this guy
with his back to you.
So all you see is his back
and he's in a corner, singing.
It was an ethereal scene, if you will.
Foggy night, foghorns, smoke so thick
you couldn't see through it.
And here's this voice.
(Coffey) Maybe it forced you
to listen to the lyrics
'cause you couldn't see the guy's face.
That's when we talked to him and figured
we needed to do an album on him.
The only writer that I had heard of,
of that time period,
was maybe Bob Dylan,
that was writing that well.
(♫ Crucify Your Mind by Rodriguez)
♫ Was it a huntsman or a player
♫ That made you pay the cost
♫ That now assumes relaxed positions
♫ And prostitutes your loss?
♫ Were you tortured by your own thirst
♫ In those pleasures that you seek
♫ That made you Tom the Curious
♫ That makes you James the Weak?
♫ And you claim you got something going
♫ Something you call unique
♫ But I've seen your self-pity showing
♫ As the tears roll down your cheeks
(Dan DiMaggio) He was this
wandering spirit around the city.
And, uh, sometimes
I might catch him in the corner.
You know, Detroit's got its share of,
uh, burned-out, desolate areas
and I would occasionally see him, um,
far away from The Brewery,
and I wondered,
and it just added
to this mythology of him.
Like, what is he doing?
What is he doing? What does he do?
I heard he did a little roofing,
some construction work.
Um, I think that's how he got his money
at the time.
He just was, you know,
and I say this with love,
I say this with respect, but,
I thought he was just a...
just not much more than a kind of
a homeless person, you know?
He just was a drifter.
He was just... Um...
I didn't know if he had a home,
you know?
He'd look like maybe he'd go
from shelter to shelter or something.
(Coffey) Detroit in the '70s
was a hard place.
Well, it's still a hard place.
Lot of decay, lots of ruined houses.
Real poverty exists in this city.
And those streets
were Rodriguez's natural habitat.
Any time we met him
to talk about what we were doing,
he would always meet us on a corner
somewhere in his neighbourhood.
Most of the time
he wasn't coming to my house.
He'd say, ''Meet me on the corner
of this street and that street,''
and we would be there.
Uh, Mike and I would get out of our cars
and park our cars,
so we'd be standing on the corner,
and then we'd look round
and he'd be there all of a sudden.
He'd just show up.
We thought he was like
the inner city poet.
You know? Putting his poems to music
of what he saw.
And it was definitely a very gritty look
at what he saw
on the streets of Detroit.
What he saw in his neighbourhood.
Who was walking around the streets.
And the way he presented it in a song,
I thought was very, very interesting.
(Theodore) We were working
at Tera-Shirma recording studio.
When he opened up and sang,
you went, ''Whoa, this guy's got it.''
Rodriguez, at that time,
had all the machinery in place.
Big names, big money behind it.
Circumstances were right.
Why didn't it make it? That's the
big question that today still haunts me.
Did he get enough promotion?
Did he do enough performances?
Was he too political?
Was there this or was there that?
Should it have been green
instead of orange?
Should it have been a violin
instead of an oboe?
On and on you can go.
But the end of the day is, if you
listen to the stuff now, you'd say,
''I don't understand it, he's right-on.''
(Jerome Ferretti)
I only heard him play once,
and one of the songs that
he had on his album, it was called...
The Sugar Man? Was it Sugar Man?
Is that the name of the song?
Um, I knew that guy, the Sugar Man.
And his name was Volkswagen Cha...
Volkswagen Frank!
And he lived right around the corner
and you used to go over
to Volkswagen Frank's.
You'd go in and get a little ''sugar,''
if you know what I mean.
(♫ Sugar man by Rodriguez)
♫ Sugar Man, won't you hurry?
♫ Cos I'm tired of these scenes
♫ For a blue coin,
won't you bring back
♫ All those colours to my dreams?
♫ Silver magic ships, you carry
♫ Jumpers, coke, sweet Mary Jane
♫ Sugar Man
♫ Met a false friend
♫ On a lonely, dusty road
♫ Lost my heart
I got some photos here
that I'd like to show you
that I've kept since my days in England
with Rodriguez.
Let me see.
Possibly it's in this book,
I don't know where.
These are all my photos
from when I was acting.
That's me, and that's Jimmy Dean.
That was in 1955.
Hang on, I think I've found them.
Think they're in here.
Yeah, here they are.
Wow. Good Lord, here they are.
You know, I haven't seen these pictures
in almost 35 years.
He's my most memorable artist.
You know, I've produced
a lot of great ones, but...
he's my most memorable.
It's not just a talent.
He's like...
He's like a wise man, a prophet.
He's way beyond
just being a musical artist.
And he probably could have done
fantastically well
if he had have continued.
When I met him, they said,
''Rodriguez, this is Steve Rowland.
''He really likes your album.''
And Rodriguez said to me,
''Well, did you like Cold Facts?''
I said, ''Man, I thought
it was absolutely brilliant.
''Absolutely brilliant.
''I can't believe that this album
didn't do anything.
''It's just a fantastic album.''
So he played me...
Well, his next album was on...
In those days you had cassettes.
He had demos of this next album that
he was gonna call Coming From Reality.
And I said, ''Wow, man,
this has got to be a smash.
''These are great songs.
''Little bit... Little bit different from
the others,'' I said, ''but great songs.''
I said, ''And a couple of them
were so sad.'' You know.
There's one in there
that's absolutely a killer.
It's one of the saddest songs that...
I'm laughing, but it's one of
the saddest songs that I've ever heard.
And it's a very simple song.
Hang on, I wanna play this. Hang on.
Okay, listen to these words.
♫ Cause by Rodriguez)
♫ 'Cause I lost my job
♫ Two weeks before Christmas
Oh, man.
♫ And I talked to Jesus at The Sewer
♫ And the Pope said it was
none of his goddamn business
♫ While the rain drank champagne
♫ My Estonian Archangel
came and got me wasted
♫ 'Cause the sweetest kiss I ever got
♫ Is the one I've never tasted
(Rowland)
And it really makes me sad, because...
that was the last song that we recorded.
And that was the last song
that Rodriguez ever recorded.
And what makes it even sadder
was the album was released
in November of 1971,
and we expected big things.
And it did absolutely nothing.
And then, two weeks before Christmas,
Sussex dropped him off the label.
And the very first line in the song,
as if premonition,
was, ''I lost my job
two weeks before Christmas.''
Oh, man. I just think about that.
This guy deserves recognition.
Nobody in America had even heard of him.
Nobody...
Nobody even was interested
in listening to him.
How can that be? How can that be?
Guy that writes like this.
I mean...
♫ 'Cause they told me
everybody's gotta pay their dues
♫ And I explained that
I had overpaid them
♫ 'Cause the smell of her perfume
♫ Echoes in my head still
(♫ I Wonder by Rodriguez)
♫ I wonder
how many times you've been had
♫ And I wonder
how many plans have gone bad
♫ I wonder how many times you had sex
♫ And I wonder,
do you know who'll be next?
(Segerman) It's still a bit of a mystery
how the first copy of Cold Fact
actually came to South Africa.
But one of the stories I've heard
is that there was an American girl
and she came to South Africa
to visit her boyfriend and brought
a copy of the record with her.
And her and him and all their friends
really liked it
and went out to try and buy it
but you couldn't buy it.
So they started taping copies
and passing copies along.
However it got here,
however it germinated here,
once it got here,
it spread very quickly.
♫ How much goin' have you got
♫ And I wonder
about your friends that are not
♫ I wonder
♫ Wonder I do
(Willem Möller)
I remember I was in high school
and we heard this song, ''I wonder
how many times you've had sex?''
And at that time South Africa
was very conservative.
It was the height of apartheid,
and there wasn't television here.
That's how conservative it was,
'cause television was communist.
It was really... You wouldn't believe.
Everything was restricted,
everything was censored.
Everything was...
And here's this guy singing this song.
''Who's that?'' Said, ''That's Rodriguez.''
And he became something
of a rebel sort of icon.
But the strange thing was
that we all bought his records.
Everybody I knew had his records.
I Wonder,
that was the big song
that everybody was singing
and we all bought a record.
And there he was on the cover,
sort of a hippy with shades.
But nobody knew anything about him.
He was a mystery.
Unlike other artists
that you could read about from America,
get to know something about them,
there was zilch. Nobody knew anything.
It was a mystery. We only had
his picture on the cover of the record.
(♫ Jane S. Piddy by Rodriguez)
♫ Now you sit there thinking
Feeling insecure
♫ The mocking court jester
Claims there is no proven cure
♫ Go back to your chamber
Your eyes upon the wall
♫ Cos you got no one to listen
You got no one to call
♫ And you think I'm curious
(Segerman) The album
was exceptionally popular.
To many of us South Africans,
he was the soundtrack to our lives.
In the mid-'70s,
if you walked into a random
white, liberal,
middle-class household
that had a turntable
and a pile of pop records
and if you flipped through the records
you would always see
Abbey Road by The Beatles.
You would always see
Bridge Over Troubled Water
by Simon and Garfunkel.
And you would always see
Cold Fact by Rodriguez.
To us, it was one of the most
famous records of all time.
The message it had was:
''Be anti-establishment.''
One song's called
Anti-Establishment Blues.
We didn't know what the word
''anti-establishment'' was
until it cropped up on a Rodriguez song
and then we found out,
it's OK to protest against your society,
to be angry with your society.
Because we lived in a society
where every means was used
to prevent apartheid from,
you know, coming to an end,
this album somehow had in it...
lyrics that almost set us free
as oppressed peoples.
Any revolution needs an anthem
and in South Africa
Cold Fact was the album
that gave people permission
to free their minds
and to start thinking differently.
(♫  The Establishment Blues by Rodriguez)
♫ The mayor hides the crime rate
Council woman hesitates
♫ Public gets irate
But forgets the vote date
♫ This system's gonna fall soon
To an angry young tune
♫ And that's a concrete cold fact
(Segerman) It may seem strange
that South African record companies
didn't do more
to try and track down Rodriguez,
but, actually,
if you look back at the time
we were in the middle of apartheid,
the height of apartheid.
South Africa was under sanctions
from countries from all over the world.
South African musicians
were not allowed to play overseas.
No foreign acts
were allowed to visit South Africa.
It was a closed-door situation
between South Africa
and the rest of the world.
♫ Woke up this morning
with an ache in my head
♫ I splashed on my clothes
as I spilled out of bed
♫ I opened the window
to listen to the news
♫ But all I heard
was the establishment's blues
(Segerman) The countries around
the world were saying horrible things
about the apartheid government
but we didn't know
because they controlled the news.
The majority of the population
had been marginalised
and forced out of the commerce in areas.
It was what had happened
in Nazi Germany.
It was a spin-off from Nazi Germany,
but if a newspaper published it,
they'd get prosecuted.
So, because of that, South Africa had
achieved a pariah status in the world.
There were cultural boycotts.
There were sporting boycotts.
It was a very isolated society.
So we were cut off.
We all knew apartheid was wrong,
but living in South Africa,
there wasn't much, as a white person,
you could do about it,
'cause the government was very strict.
It was a military state,
to a large degree.
If you spoke out against apartheid,
you could be thrown into prison
for three years.
So although a lot of whites
were part of the struggle,
the majority of whites were not.
You were watched. There were spies.
It was scary and people were scared.
But out of the Afrikaans
community emerged
a group of Afrikaans
musicians, songwriters,
and for them, when they heard Rodriguez,
it was like a voice spoke to them
and said, ''Guys, there's a way out.
There's a way out.
''You can write music.
You can write imagery.
''You can sing, you can perform.''
And that was where, really,
the first opposition to apartheid
came from inside
the Afrikaans community.
It was these young Afrikaans guys
and, to a man,
they'll tell you
they were influenced by Rodriguez.
Koos Kombuis. Willem Möller.
The late Johannes Kerkorrel.
The guys who were regarded as the icons
of the Afrikaans music revolution
will all tell you,
''Rodriguez was our guy.''
(speaking Afrikaans)
(Möller)
We call it the Voëlvry movement
of Afrikaans artists
singing against apartheid.
All of us listened to Rodriguez
at some point. All of us.
It had an enormous impact.
It made you just think
that there's another way.
What's presented to you
by the establishment isn't all theirs.
(rock music playing)
♫ Set if off, set if off
(Möller) The biggest hit
was a song called Set It Off
which was when PW Botha
was the president then.
The real bad guy. When he came on TV,
he used to talk like that.
And this song said, ''switch it off,
just switch off the TV.''
(male interviewer)
So what lines do you think
were the lines they had problem with?
Ah, gee whiz, it's all of them.
''Sugar Man, won't you hurry
Cos I'm tired of these scenes
''For a blue coin, won't you bring back
all those colours to my dreams?''
The most difficult ones is probably
''Silver magic ships, you carry
Jumpers, coke, sweet Mary Jane.''
And what is that?
Uh...
I'm gonna leave that to you.
(both chuckle)
-But it's drugs?
-It's certainly drugs.
During the apartheid years,
it was just impossible to play it.
And what happened if you did play it?
Well, you couldn't.
I'd like to show you why.
Right, here we have the album,
the vinyl.
At the back of the sleeve
you'll see a sticker that says ''Avoid.''
But when you open the album
and take it out from its sleeve,
you would see that they have
scratched that particular song
with a sharp tool to make sure
that it would not go out on air.
And that's the way that they
banned the music which, in my mind,
was quite a brutal way of ensuring the
song would never be heard on the air.
(Steve Harris) Most of those tracks
were on the banned list at SABC
and they ran
the broadcast industry completely.
There weren't any independent
radio stations or TV stations.
Obviously, when that word got out,
it just made the record more desirable.
You know,
it's like having something banned.
You're 16, 17 years old
and you've got something that's banned.
It was absolutely perfect.
(♫ Can't get Away by Rodriguez)
♫ Born in the troubled city
♫ In Rock and Roll, USA
♫ In the shadow of the tallest building
♫ I vowed I would break away
♫ Listened to the Sunday actors
♫ But all they would ever say
♫ That you can't get away from it
♫ No, you can't get away
(Segerman) Cold Fact was just one
of the albums we had in our collections,
and for 10, 20 years, it was just
a record we listened to and enjoyed.
But then a pivotal event happened
that changed everything for me.
We were down in Camps Bay beach.
We were sitting around on the beach
and a friend of mine,
a woman, who was from South Africa,
but she had got married
and emigrated to Los Angeles,
she said to me, ''Where can I
buy Cold Fact in South Africa?''
And I turned round and I pointed
to a store across the road
that sold CDs and I said,
''You can buy it at that store.''
She said, ''Really? Because, you know,
you can't buy it anywhere in America.
''I've asked everywhere in America,
no one's even heard of it.''
And that was a pivotal moment,
'cause I didn't know that.
I thought everybody knew Rodriguez,
especially in America
'cause he was American.
So my next thought was,
''Ah, Rodriguez, that's interesting.''
I went back... I came back home
and I took out my Rodriguez records
and that's when I realised
there was nothing on the record
to tell us who he was
or where he was from.
On Cold Fact there are four names.
On the front cover
it just says ''Rodriguez.''
But if we take the record out
and examine the sleeve,
the artist's name is Sixto Rodriguez.
But if you look at the tracks,
six of these tracks
are credited to Jesus Rodriguez,
and four of these tracks
are credited to Sixth Prince.
So who actually wrote these songs
and who are all these people?
We didn't have any more information
than a record
with him sitting on the cover
with a hat and sunglasses on.
We didn't know how tall he was
'cause he was sitting cross-legged.
So how do you solve a mystery?
You use whatever
information's available.
What did we have?
A record cover with lyrics.
So we started looking
quite deeply at the lyrics
and seeing what they said,
and some of them, very few of them,
had geographical references.
The one You Can't Get Away starts off,
''Born in the troubled city
''In Rock and Roll, USA.''
Born in which troubled city?
Seems all the cities were troubled
in the late '60s.
''In the shadow of the tallest building.''
The tallest building, as far as we knew,
was in New York.
And at the bottom of the song
this verse says,
''In a hotel room in Amsterdam.''
Then it says, ''Going down a dusty
Georgian side road I wander.'' Georgia?
So we've had Amsterdam,
we've had Georgia,
we've had the world's tallest building.
Not much to go on.
(Bartholomew-Strydom)
Well, what I heard,
and the story differs a lot,
and a lot of people have different
versions of the story, but what I heard,
he hadn't played a concert
in a very long time.
And a promoter got him
to play a concert,
and he was hoping
it was gonna be a great show.
Of course, the show didn't
work out that way. It started out...
The sound wasn't good.
The venue wasn't good.
A lot of the factors
surrounding the show wasn't good.
And as the show went on and on,
it started going downhill from there.
People started ridiculing him.
People started whistling
or making mention of the fact that,
you know,
the show wasn't going as planned.
And it got to a point where,
just very quietly, very gently,
he just sang his last song.
''But thanks for your time
Then you can thank me for mine
''And after that's said forget it.''
And he reached down and pulled up a gun
and pulled the trigger.
And that was the dramatic,
very dramatic ending,
to what was actually a non-career.
(Segerman) In 1996,
the South African record label
released Rodriguez's second album,
Coming From Reality,
on CD for the first time
in South Africa.
And because they thought
I knew a lot about him,
they asked if I wanted to co-write
the liner notes for the booklet,
which I did.
And I'll read some of it to you.
They start off by saying,
''If ever there is an air of intrigue
and mystery around a pop artist,
''it is around the artist
known as Rodriguez.
''There's no air of intrigue and mystery
around him anywhere else in the world
''because his two albums,
Coming From Reality and Cold Fact,
''were monumental flops everywhere else.''
And this is the important part.
''There were no concrete cold facts
about the artist known as Rodriguez.
''Any musicologist detectives out there?''
And that,
that's the line that changed everything.
(Bartholomew-Strydom)
I started searching for Rodriguez
when a few of us
were sitting around in the Army
and somebody said,
''How did Rodriguez die?''
And just coincidence,
at the time I was looking
for subject matter to write an article.
I remember having, like, five points
on a piece of paper.
And number four, or something,
was ''Find out how Rodriguez died.''
I thought it would make a good story.
So that was in the back of my mind
for many years
and then, many years later,
I came across this, um,
re-release of Coming From Reality
and inside, the liner notes said,
''There were no concrete cold facts
about the artist known as Rodriguez.
''Any musicologist detectives out there?''
Um, was the question,
and I think that to me,
was like an invitation.
I thought, ''Well, maybe it's me''.
The first way I tried to find him
was to just follow the money.
Normally, you follow the money.
That's how you get
to the bottom of anything.
But where do dead men's money go?
I was astounded that
no one knew anything about him.
I guess it was reminiscent
of how bad the music industry was.
They were renowned
for ripping people off.
And it is one thing,
if they had said to me, ''Oh, yeah,
''we send the money
to X place or Y,'' or whatever,
but they just kept on being very vague.
And, in fact, when I put some pressure
on somebody, I did get an address,
and I called
and, I can't remember
if I spoke to someone or left a message,
but when I called the next day,
the number had been changed.
And that to me was...
I mean, that's a gift
for anyone who wants to be a detective,
is an obstacle,
because an obstacle is an inspiration.
If you just find things easily,
they're not inspiring,
and this was a great obstacle
that somebody had changed their number.
I just smelt a dirty money story
somewhere there.
(male interviewer)
So, if you compare to other artists,
how big was it actually?
(Robbie Mann) Every month it just sold.
And every party you went to
and every place you went to,
you'd hear that album at least once.
I don't think I could even think
of how many albums he's sold here
'cause it's a long period of time.
(male interviewer)
What could be probable?
(sighs)
I'd have to guess. Maybe half a million
copies over that period of time.
It's a lot of records,
especially for a small country.
Gold record, ten times over.
(male interviewer) Rodriguez never got
to know that he was big in South Africa.
How could that be?
Don't know.
I mean, everything would have been...
I find that strange.
I have no idea.
(male interviewer) But you must
have sent royalties somewhere?
(Mann) Of course we sent royalties.
We sent royalties to A&M Records.
I remember the label. It was A&M Sussex.
Whether they had a partnership,
whatever they had, I don't... You know.
So, my suggestion is, if you
can find out whoever the person was
who owned Sussex Records,
then you will find out
what happened to the money.
(male interviewer)
Because it's weird, isn't it?
(Mann) It's very strange. Very strange.
(male interviewer) How popular
was the album? Was he as famous as,
you know,
the Rolling Stones and the Doors?
Oh, it was much bigger
than Rolling Stones.
Absolutely, at the time, yeah.
(male interviewer) When you released
the record, did you try to contact him?
(Harris) No, not at all. You know?
Because... because, at the time,
the legend... the legend was...
here was an artist.
This was like Jimi Hendrix.
With Jimi Hendrix catalogues,
you've gotta understand,
if you just got Jimi Hendrix and you'd
got the licence for this territory,
you're obviously not gonna go try get
hold of Jimi Hendrix, because he's dead.
-But who did you pay royalties to?
-To Sussex Music.
To Clarence?
Yes. Well, to Sussex Music
which is his company, yeah.
So, I decided to make a diagram.
Write down the whole path
and trail that I was trying to work out.
All the various touch points,
all the record companies,
all the people that had dealings with
Rodriguez and his album at some point.
I made this whole document.
So I found out there were three
record companies in South Africa
that had released Rodriguez's records.
Finally discovering that
led to a record company in America.
It was a company that
had been signing Rodriguez
and creating his first album
called Sussex.
I then did my research on Sussex.
That led me to discovering
who the owner of Sussex Records was:
Clarence Avant.
Clarence Avant,
he'd been the head of Motown,
one of the most prestigious jobs
to have in the record company industry.
So I did my research. I tried everything
to get a hold of Clarence Avant,
but I just got to a lot of closed doors.
I could not get a hold of him.
(male interviewer) I don't know
if you've ever seen this picture.
(chuckles) That's him.
That's Rodriguez.
I don't know when this was made.
I have absolutely no idea.
-That's 1970, I think.
-Yeah.
This is my man.
Man, don't get me emotional again. Shit.
You made me emotional once.
I ain't getting emotional no more
sitting here talking to you, man.
If I had to name ten artists
that I have ever been involved with,
Rodriguez would be in the top five,
simple as that.
There's nothing...
You never heard anything like him.
People would say, ''Well, Bob Dylan.''
I said, ''No, no''.
Bob Dylan was mild to this guy.
Did it make any money?
We judge singing here in America...
If you say,
''Is it... Was it the top hundred?
''Was it... was it number...
Did it get on the charts as number 12?
''Was there a lot of radio play?''
The answer's, ''No, man.''
Nobody didn't... Rodriguez?
You know, that name didn't register.
Although he looked like he was
a white guy but, even still, Rodriguez,
everybody knew Rodriguez,
that's a Spanish name.
A Latin name.
Latin music was not happening then.
(male interviewer) How many records
do you think he sold in America?
In America? Six.
Maybe my wife bought it,
maybe my daughter bought...
She couldn't buy it, but maybe
Neil Bogart, maybe Dennis and Mike.
Hey, look, man, you know,
it didn't sell here.
There was some excitement about him.
Couple of agents heard him
and wanted to bring him to California
and, you know, when he came
to California he was nervous,
and he turned his back to the audience
and everybody said,
''Well, what the hell is this?''
(male interviewer)
But the thing is that the guy sold
hundreds of thousands of records
in another country.
(Avant) I'm going to South Africa to try
to chase somebody who's selling records?
Shit, no, man.
(male interviewer) But did you know
that he was big in South Africa?
Rodriguez, young man, never happened
insofar as I'm concerned.
Period.
But if I'm really gonna try to track
down the money, how should I do it?
Well, is that important, the money?
Or is Rod...
Which is important? Rodriguez's story
or you worrying about the money?
How many people in South Africa?
40 million? 40 thousand?
40 million people? How many people?
40 million people live in South Africa.
Well, so they've been freed
for how long? Three hours?
So what the fuck's
that supposed to mean?
You told me at lunch,
they scratch records
because they wouldn't let the lyrics...
So the underground movement,
how big was it? How big was it?
(male interviewer) He sold
half a million records in South Africa.
So he sold half a million records.
So what?
I don't know who he sold them to.
How many distributors did he have?
I have no idea.
There are only...
There are three record labels.
-I spoke to all the record label...
-Well, great.
...bosses in South Africa who
has released his records. It was...
Go back to 'em and tell 'em
to send me an account.
You think it's something
I'm gonna worry about, a 1970 contract?
If you do,
you're outta your goddamn mind.
Buddha Records out of business.
I'm out of business.
So you think they give a shit
about that? I know I wouldn't.
(Segerman)
I've been looking for information
about Rodriguez for a long time.
I've even set up a web page
called The Great Rodriguez Hunt
in the hope that
someone out there in cyberspace
would